2.0 Literature Review:

The consideration of corporate social responsibility was sparked in the early 1990s within management literature through the argumentation of Porter and Van Der Linde, who argued that regulations on environmental standards and governance would make firms more competitive and encourage them to innovate methods to increase profitability, productivity, and effective resource usage (1995). Since the debut of Porter’s Hypothesis, an enormous body of literature has developed questioning the role of sustainability in company strategy and the relationship between environmental and social governance and firm performance.

A heated debate remains regarding whether the relationship between CSR and corporate profitability is positive or negative, with numerous studies corroborating both stances. Proponents of the positive relationship examine developed countries, finding that piecemeal incorporation of ESG factors augments firm value and financial performance. In considering environmental standards, literature confirming the importance of environmental regulation on financial performance has been documented across the last twenty years. For instance, Dowell et al. (2000) found that firms that followed strict international environmental standards often had larger market values, as indicated by Tobin’s Q, compared to companies that abided by a less severe environmental standard. More recently, Gull et. al (2022) re-examined the relationship between environmental and financial performance among hundreds of firms and concluded that the ten firms with the highest environmental sustainability scores fiscally outperformed 80 firms with average environmental scores. Conversely, authors have highlighted the adverse impact of environmental considerations on financial performance, suggesting that the negative impact on profitability results largely due to suffocating accounting standards (Hasan et al. 2022) and excessive spending to meet sustainability goals (Cheng et al. 2023). 

The same inconclusive stance is less robust when considering the impacts of rigid social and governance measures on profitability. For example, research by Serafeim and Grewal (2017) note that non-financial disclosures related to the regulatory position have longstanding impacts on the future financial performance of a firm as it attracts alternative streams of external investment, increasing their long-term growth targets by about three percentage points. Their findings are corroborated by research by O'Connell and Cramer (2010) who explain how diversity in background and perspective among management board enhance the development of productive policies and Zhang and Lucey (2022) who confirm that robust corporate governance helps increase transparency and decrease financial restrictions a company may face. In fact, the positive correlation persists across geographic boundaries as studies by Giannopoulos et al. 2022 and Laskar & Maji, 2016 confirm that across the geopolitically diverse countries of Norway and India, increasing CSR initiatives more focused on augmenting social and governance standards led to improved financial performance. Although the above studies focus on the individual effects of any of the E, S, and G factors on financial performance, a litany of more recent research (Aboud & Diab, 2018; Li et al., 2018; Yoon et al., 2018) confirms these findings on a more wholistic basis by analyzing stakeholder theory to validate the positive relationship between firm performance and cumulative ESG disclosure scores. However, despite much of the robust support for the positive correlation, many reputable studies exist that point to an inconclusive stance regarding data, such as Kalia and Aggarwal (2023) who analyze ESG disclosures among healthcare firms in developed and developing economies and find mixed empirical evidence to support a specific direction for the correlation. Kalia and Aggarwal’s (2023) mixed review is corroborated by the research of Cronqvist et al. (2009) who conducted a similar analysis across European countries and found inconclusive evidence. 

The phenomenon of globalization has further complicated the discussion of CSR and its impacts on profitability. With international norms developed by global organizations such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Trade Organization (WTO) and government agencies like the International Labor Organization (ILO), firms are pressured to adopt the ascribed codes of conduct to operate in accordance with international frameworks safeguarding the environment and workers rights. However, the standardized acceptance of these frameworks is not equivalent across international borders, with developed countries abiding by global sustainability frameworks more diligently than emerging markets. The disproportionate adherence to sustainability standards in emerging markets persists as decreased levels of social, labor, and environmental standards result in lower costs for resources and production, rendering it more cost-effective to reject sustainability frameworks compared to competitors operating within developed countries (Duque-Grisales & Aguilera-Caracuel, 2019).  These lowered costs call into question whether the competitive advantage of integrating CSR initiatives on financial performance outweighs the cost reductions associated with the status quo, rendering it more. This question has become more salient for both researchers and executives as globalization and CSR have spread across the last few years. 

## 2.1 International Studies: # #

Over the past two decades, academia has centered the discussion surrounding CSR and CFP around developed countries, finding a positive correlation between ESG disclosure scores and financial performance (Margolis et al., 2009; Orlitzky et al., 2003). However, as academics consider the rise of countries outside of the developed, Western sphere – that is, the newfound ascension of the East Asian Tigers in the late 1990s and the BRIC countries from 2000 to 2010, - studies analyzing data from outside the Global North have challenged the presumption of the positive correlation (Naidoo, & Seetharam, 2015). While studies investigating the CSR-CFP relationship among European like Germany and North American markets like Canada are plentiful and come to similar conclusions, academics are now turning towards understanding the institutional differences between the Global North and Global South and its implications on institutional organization, socio-environmental sustainability, and corporate profitability (Conca et al., 2021, Thorne et al. (2014), Velte (2017).

Focusing primarily on developing countries, many of the studies conducted have resulted in divergent results from their developed country counterparts. For instance, a study by Liu and Anbumozhi (2009) analyzing 175 companies across China found no significant relationship between financial performance and environmental disclosure. In fact, these findings were corroborated by Duque-Grisales et al. 2021 who analyzed 104 mulitatina firms and found a slight negative correlation between socio-economic governance and economic performance. Dobers and Halme (2009) explain the phenomenon of emerging markets producing mixed results, noting that a country’s unique institutional frameworks and economic stance impact its degree of ESG adoption. The level of ESG adopted then has varying effects on the financial performance of an emerging market firm due to the political and socio-economic circumstances of the country. Other regional factors that impact the degree of ESG adoption include religious and cultural considerations. For instance, a study by Momin and Parker (2013) analyzed 39 executives of multinational subsidies in Bangladesh and found that the practice of the Islamic faith by the management board influenced the levels of transparency and disclosure in business practices due to the faith’s discouragement of corporate self-praise. A consequence of this cultural element was decreased levels of corporate transparency, reduced levels of legal compliance, the rejection of stakeholder’s right to information, and greater noncompliance to health and safety laws. 

In addition to the difference in institutional backgrounds impacting ESG adoption, many firms within emerging markets are targeted by developed country firms as vessels to conduct high-pollution operations due to the lack of sustainable accountability within the country. For instance, Yang, Craig, and Farley (2015) investigate the “race to the bottom” in China where many foreign companies from developed countries seek out Chinese firms faced with weaker environmental regulations and lower compliance costs to conduct operations that would receive significant penalties in developed countries. This consideration has neo-colonial implications as developed countries offshore their environmentally unsustainable production to countries bound by weaker socio-environmental policies, removing an emerging market’s ability to transform its processes to become more sustainable and profitable as well as putting employees and firms at greater risk of long-term, irreversible damage. Instead of recognizing the potential strategic benefit of CSR investments, emerging market firms are forced to perpetually exist within a status quo where profitability arises from interacting with unsustainable and damaging industries while developed nations reap the fiscal and reputational benefits of high-quality, sustainable ESG integration long into the future.

Due to the aforementioned considerations, the concept of CSR is relatively new to many emerging market countries. Given their strategic importance as global growth accelerators over the next twenty years though, it is imperative that academics disentangle the mystery surrounding the efficacy of ESG integration in augmenting financial profitability and preventing the negative externalities of accelerated growth among emerging market firms (Shakil et al., 2019). In considering the BRIC countries specifically, disclosure standards vary significantly from country to country and there remains a lack of consensus regarding frameworks for sustainability reporting (Reverte, 2009). Despite the lack of a foundational framework, many international organizations such as the Global Reporting Initiative and the International Sustainability Standard board have taken measurable strides in developing sustainability frameworks designed to address the tailored socio-political contexts and needs of high-income, middle-income, and low-income countries. ESGs growing presence as a central aspect in industrial organizations, especially to attract socially conscious consumers and shareholders, motivates researchers to continue addressing the current gaps in CSR literature, verifying the relationship between ESG disclosure and profitability among firms characterized by different market contexts. 
