3. Methodology

This study employed multiple filters to determine the sample. Firstly, due to the geographic focus on emerging markets, the countries Brazil, Russia, India, and China were selected as they act as a well-established dataset representing the frontier of countries within developing markets. Secondly, the firms selected through ESGBook were required to have more than USD $1 billion in annual revenue, representing large market capitalization firms. The focus on large market-capitalization firms is strategic as mid to low capitalization firms within the Global South tend have smaller operations, less subject to the potential benefits of ESG integration. From these initial criterion, 401 firms were included within the study. In continuing the extraction of firms from the dataset, firms that did not disclose high-quality financial data on the Thomson Reuters’ database were removed from the sample to ensure that datapoints were precise and measurable. In a similar vein, firms that failed to disclose specified financial, environmental, social, and corporate governance information on ESGBook were not taken into consideration as the team sought to pinpoint precise rationales for attributed ESG performance scores.

3.1 Independent Variables: 

After applying the selection criteria, I arrived at a finalized, self-created sample of 293 disclosed firms with 520 observable datapoints spanning across 2012 to 2023. Each firm’s Performance Score was calculated through an analysis of the company’s annual, CSR, and sustainability reports while its Global Compact score was developed in consideration with the market context and political situation of the country. Both scores are calculated on a scale of 1 to 100, with ~50 being the neutral range. Scores between 30-40 are considered to have poor-ESG performance while those above 50 are performing relatively well. The Performance Score identifies which companies are best suited to outperform over the long-term considering management practices, finite resources, and labor standards. The Global Compact Score approximates reputational risk by providing a normative assessment of the company’s adherence to four principles of the United Nations Global Compact: human rights, labor rights, the environment, and anti-corruption. Both scores provide differing perspectives on a company’s sustainability position and, in tandem, provide the full context of a firm’s sustainability metrics and its relation to its surrounding regulatory and social environment. Importantly, these scores are re-calculated and cleaned daily according to a set of quality data-checks, providing the most timely and consistent data for the study. 

*Include a chart on ESG performance metrics)

3.2 Dependent Variables

The dependent variable of interest is financial performance. In this study, we evaluate a firms performance based on the two accounting and market performance indicators of return on assets (ROA) and Tobin’s Q. ROA is used as proxy for financial performance due to significant literature explaining that financial accounting returns are the best unbiased predictors of firm financial performance (Tang et al. 2012; Velte 2017). Studies on ESG define ROA as the net income’s ratio to total assets, and it’s used as a proxy for financial performance due to its focus on how managerial policies and efficient asset and capital utilization impact earnings and earnings potentials (Lee and Faff 2009). Under the same premise, a firm’s Tobin’s Q serves as a strong representation of a company’s financial performance as affected by more qualitative, ESG metrics. Tobin’s Q is calculated by computed total market value divided by total assets value, providing insight into how assets are value across a country’s market (Alareeni & Hamdan, 2020). Both metrics have had a long history within panel data regression models and are largely effective in explaining the impact of ESG incorporation on financial profitability. 

3.3 Control Variables

3.4 Regression Methodology

Running a typical Monte-Carlo regression, the empirical analysis used the panel dataset with ESG performance data obtained from ESG Book and financial performance data obtained from Thomas Reuters database. To test the effects of ESG integration across emerging markets, four regression models were run to examine the bidirectional relationship of ESG disclosure on financial performance. The bidirectional estimation procedure was utilized to control for potential endogeneity issues. In the first econometric model, the financial metric of ROA was regressed on the CSR variables of ESG Performance Score and Global Compact score, finding a slight positive correlation between higher CSR variables and asset return.  as the dependent variable and the ESG Performance Score as the explanatory variable. In the second regressions the financial metric of Tobin’s Q was regressed on the CSR variables of ESG Performance Score and Global Compact score, indicating no significant correlation between the two. To account for the endogeneity problem, the models were repeated after switching the dependent and independent variables. To clarify, the third test regressed the ESG Performance score on the financial metrics of ROA and Tobin’s Q while the fourth test regressed the Global Compact Score on the ROA and Tobin’s Q metrics. The equations represented across all four trials are mentioned below. *Maybe add control variables?

(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

For the purpose of robustness testing, the experiment was conducted again excluding companies from the financial sector to be in line with other empirical studies (Martínez-Ferrero and Frías-Aceituno (2013) and Aras et al. (2010)). Removing companies from the financial sector provided more of an unbiased result as their financial ratios such as their free cash flow differ largely from firms across other economic sectors. Despite removing financial companies from the sample, the results did not change substantially. 
